[FIXTURE ITEMID=001-75327 APPNO=47533/99 - kısaltılmış test fixture'ı]

FOURTH SECTION CASE OF ERGIN v. TURKEY (No. 6) (Application no. 47533/99) JUDGMENT STRASBOURG 4 May 2006 This judgment will become final in the circumstances set out in Article 44 § 2 of the Convention. It may be subject to editorial revision. In the case of Ergin v. Turkey (no. 6), The European Court of Human Rights (Fourth Section), sitting as a Chamber composed of: Sir N icolas Bratza, presiden

PROCEDURE 1. The case originated in an application (no. 47533/99) against the Republic of Turkey lodged with the Court under Article 34 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (“the Convention”) by a Turkish national, Mr Ahmet Ergin (“the applicant”), on 25 March 1999. 2. The applicant was represented by Mr K.T. Sürek, a lawyer practising in Istanbul. The Turkish Government (“the Government”) did not appoint an Agent for the proceedings before the Court. 3. On 1 February 2001 the Second Section decided to communicate the application to the Government. 4. On 1 November 2001 and 1 November 2004 the Court changed the composition of its Sections (Rule 25 § 1 of the Rules of Court). This case was assigned to the newly composed Fourth Section (Rule 52 § 1). 5. On 31 March 2005, under the provisions of Article 29 § 3 of the Convention, the Fourth Section de [...]

THE FACTS 1. THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE CASE 6. The applicant was born in 1973 and lives in Istanbul. 7. On 1 September 1997, as editor of the newspaper Günlük Emek (Everyday Work), the applicant published in issue number 297 an article entitled “Giving the conscripts a send-off, and collective memory” ( Asker uğurlamalar ve toplumsal hafıza ) signed by Barış Avşar. 8. On 4 December 1997 the public prosecutor at the Military Court of the General Staff (“the General Staff Court”), acting under Article 58 of the Military Penal Code and Article 155 of the Criminal Code, charged the applicant with incitement, by publication of the above article, to evade military service ( askerlikten soğutma ). 9. The applicant informed the General Staff Court that the article had been written by Mr Şevki Akbaba, who had signed it with a pseudonym. 10. In a judgment of 20 October 1998 the General Staff Court  [...]

THE LAW I. ALLEGED VIOLATION OF ARTICLE 10 OF THE CONVENTION 26. The applicant alleged that his criminal conviction had infringed his right to freedom of expression as guaranteed by Article 10 of the Convention, the relevant parts of which provide: “1. Everyone has the right to freedom of expression. This right shall include freedom to hold opinions and to receive and impart information and ideas without interference by public authority and regardless of frontiers. ...” 2. The exercise of these freedoms, since it carries with it duties and responsibilities, may be subject to such formalities, conditions, restrictions or penalties as are prescribed by law and are necessary in a democratic society, in the interests of national security, territorial integrity or public safety, for the prevention of disorder or crime...” A. Admissibility 27. The Court notes that the complaint is not manifest [...]

FOR THESE REASONS, THE COURT UNANIMOUSLY 1. Declares the application admissible; 2. Holds that there has been a violation of Article 10 of the Convention; 3. Holds that there has been a violation of Article 6 § 1 of the Convention as regards the independence and impartiality of the General Staff Court; 4. Holds that there is no need to examine the other complaint under Article 6 of the Convention; 5. Holds (a) that the respondent State is to pay the applicant, within three months from the date on which the judgment becomes final in accordance with Article 44 § 2 of the Convention, EUR 2,000 (two thousand euros) in respect of non-pecuniary damage and EUR 1,500 (one thousand five hundred euros) for costs and expenses, plus any tax that may be chargeable on the above amounts, which sums are to be converted into New Turkish liras at the rate applicable on the day of settlement; (b) that from the expiry of the above-mentioned three months until settlement simple interest shall be payable on the above amounts at a rate equal to the marginal lending rate of the European Central Bank during the default period plus three percentage points; 6. Dismisses the remainder of the applicant’s claim for just satisfaction. Done in French, and notified in writing on 4 May 2006, pursuant to Rule 77 §§ 2 and 3 of the Rules of Court. Michael O’Boyle Nicolas Bratza Registrar President In accordance with Article 45 § 2 of the Convention and Rule 74 § 2 of the Rules of Court, the concurring opinion of Mr Türmen is annexed to this judgment. N.B. M.O’B.

CONCURRING OPINION OF JUDGE TÜRMEN I voted for a violation of Article 6 paragraph 1 of the Convention on account of the lack of independence and impartiality of the General Staff Court. Nevertheless, I do not fully agree with the reasoning of the judgment. In the case-law of the Court, when a civilian is put on trial in a military court or a court where a military judge sits, the Court tries to ascertain whether the military judge offers sufficient guarantees to exclude any legitimate doubt in respect of his impartiality. In Incal v. Turkey (judgment of 9 June 1998, Reports of Judgments and Decisions 1998 ‑ IV) the Court gave a negative answer to this question, because a. the military judge who was a member of the State Security Court belonged to the army and took his orders from the executive; b. he was subject to military discipline and assessment reports were compiled on him by the army; c. decisions pertaining to his appointment were taken by the army’s administrative authorities; d. the term of office was only four years and could be renewed. On the other hand, in the Aksoy (Eroğlu) (no. 59741/00, 3 November 2005) and Yavuz (no. 29870/96, 25 May 2000) decisions, the Court reached the opposite conclusion with respect to military judges at the Military Supreme Administrative Court owing to the fact that a. their assessment reports were not compiled by the military; b. they were appointed by the President of the Republic; c. they could not be removed by a decision of the executive or the military hierarchy; d. they enjoyed a maximum four-year term of office. In view of this, the opinion expressed in paragraph 49 of the judgment “A judicial system in which a military court is empowered to try a person who is not a member of the armed forces may easily be perceived as reducing to nothing the distance which should exist between the court and the parties to criminal proceedings, even if there are sufficient safeguards to guarantee that court’s independence.” does not seem to be compatible with the criteria established by the case-law of the Court for the impartiality of military judges. Moreover, in paragraph 54 of the judgment, it is stated that “... the Court considers that it is understandable that the applicant, a civilian standing trial before a court composed exclusively of military officers, charged with offences relating to propaganda against military service, should have been apprehensive about appearing before judges belonging to the army, which could be identified with a party to the proceedings.” It seems that, in examining the impartiality of the court, the judgment makes a distinction according to the nature of the offence. In cases where an offence is directed against the army, the judges belonging to the army are party to the case and therefore they cannot be impartial. However, in Canevi and Others v. Turkey (no. 40395/98, 10 November 2004) the first Section of the Court refused to make a distinction on this basis. In this case Mr  [...]