[FIXTURE ITEMID=001-250157 APPNO=17389/20 - kısaltılmış test fixture'ı]

GRAND CHAMBER CASE OF YASAK v. TÜRKİYE (Application no. 17389/20) JUDGMENT Art 43 • Government’s request to reconsider the referral decision of the Grand Chamber panel rejected • Appropriateness of the decision not to be assessed by the Grand Chamber • Case, in so far as declared admissible, automatically referred to the Grand Chamber to be decided afresh Art 35 § 3 (a) • Application not amounting

PROCEDURE

THE FACTS I. THE BACKGROUND TO THE CASE A. Attempted coup d’état of 15 July 2016 and declaration of a state of emergency B. The classification of the FETÖ/PDY as a terrorist organisation II. THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE CASE A. The applicant’s arrest and his statements B. The bill of indictment C. The evidence obtained during the investigation and subsequent criminal proceedings 1. Witness statements taken in the criminal investigation initiated by the Çorum Public Prosecutor’s Office (a) B.A.’s statements (b) Y.B.’s statements (c) A.B.’s statements (d) H.E.’s statements (e) A.S.’s statements 2. The analysis report on HTS records from a mobile telephone line 3. The report on payment of the applicant’s social-security contributions 4. Document on the applicant’s banking activities with Bank Asya D. Other documents produced by the Government E. The proceedings before the domestic courts 1. The [...]

THE LAW I. PRELIMINARY ISSUES A. The Government’s request to reconsider the decision of the Grand Chamber panel B. Abuse of the right of individual application II. ALLEGED VIOLATION OF ARTICLE 7 OF THE CONVENTION A. The Chamber judgment B. Merits 1. Arguments of the parties (a) The applicant (b) The Government 2. Third-party observations (a) The UN Special Rapporteur on Counter-Terrorism and Human Rights (b) European Criminal Bar Association (c) Italian Federation for Human Rights 3. The Court’s assessment (a) Relevant general principles (b) Application to the present case (i) Preliminary observations (ii) The issue to be decided in the present case (iii) The mens rea requirement for the offence of membership of a terrorist organisation (iv) The domestic courts’ establishment of the mens rea of the offence in the present case (v) Conclusion III. ALLEGED VIOLATION OF ARTICLE 3 OF the CONV [...]

DISSENTING OPINION OF JUDGES VEHABOVIĆ, SCHUKKING, CHANTURIA, YÜKSEL, SEIBERT-FOHR, ROOSMA, GUERRA MARTINS AND NÍ RAIFEARTAIGH PARTLY DISSENTING OPINION OF JUDGE GUERRA MARTINS P artly dissenting opinion of judge Lavapuro, joined by judges Jelić, Ktistakis, Šimáčková and Đurović JOINT DISSENTING OPINION OF JUDGES VEHABOVIĆ, CHANTURIA, FELICI, YÜKSEL, NÍ RAIFEARTAIGH AND KUČS DISSENTING OPINION OF JUDGE NÍ RAIFEARTAIGH In the case of Yasak v. Türkiye, The European Court of Human Rights, sitting as a Grand Chamber composed of: Mattias Guyomar , President , Ivana Jelić, Lado Chanturia, Ioannis Ktistakis, Kateřina Šimáčková, Faris Vehabović, Jolien Schukking, Gilberto Felici, Saadet Yüksel, Anja Seibert-Fohr, Peeter Roosma, Ana Maria Guerra Martins, Anne Louise Bormann, Úna Ní Raifeartaigh, Artūrs Kučs, Mateja Đurović, Juha Lavapuro , judges , and Abel Campos, Deputy Registrar, Having deliberated in private on 7 May 2025, 5 November 2025 and 11 February 2026, Delivers the following judgment, which was adopted on that date: INTRODUCTION 1. The case concerns the applicant’s conviction, under Article 314 § 2 of the Turkish Criminal Code, for membership of an armed terrorist organisation, and also the conditions of his detention while serving his sentence in Çorum Prison. It raises issues under Articles 7 and 3 of the Convention. PROCEDURE 2 . The case originated in an application (no. 17389/20) against the Republic of Türkiye lodged with the Court under Article 34 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (“the Convention”) by a Turkish national, Mr Şaban Yasak (“the applicant”), on 2 April 2020. 3 . The applicant was represented by Mr J. Vande Lanotte and Mr J. Heymans, lawyers practising in Mariakerke (Belgium). The Turkish Government (“the Government”) were represented by their Agent. 4 . The application was allocated to the Second Section of the Court (Rule 52 § 1 of the Rules of Court ). On 19 February 2021 the Government were given notice of the applicant’s complaints under Articles 3 and 7 of the Convention. The remainder of the application (in particular, the applicant’s complaint under Article 6) was declared inadmissible, pursuant to Rule 54 § 3. 5 . In a judgment of 27 August 2024, a Chamber of the Second Section composed of Arnfinn Bårdsen, President, Jovan Ilievski, Saadet Yüksel, Lorraine Schembri Orland, Frédéric Krenc, Diana Sârcu and Gediminas Sagatys, and Hasan Bakırcı, Section Registrar, unanimously declared admissible the complaint under Article 3 of the Convention concerning the conditions of detention in Çorum Prison, and also the complaint under Article 7. Unanimously, it declared the remainder of the application inadmissible. It also concluded, unanimously, that there had been no violation of Article 3 or Article 7 of the Convention. The concurring opinion of Judge Krenc was appended to the judgment . 6 . On 26 November 2024 the applicant requested that the case be referred to the Grand Chamber [...]

FOR THESE REASONS, THE COURT, Dismisse s , unanimously, the Government’s request for re ‑ examination of the decision by the panel of the Grand Chamber; Dismisses , unanimously, the Government’s objection of inadmissibility alleging an abuse of the right of individual application; Dismisses , unanimously, the Government’s preliminary objection alleging failure to exhaust domestic remedies with regard to the conditions of detention; Holds , by 11 votes to 6, that there has been a violation of Article 7 of the Convention; Holds , by 9 votes to 8, that there has been a violation of Article 3 of the Convention ; Holds, by 11 votes to 6, that the finding of a violation of Article 7 constitutes in itself sufficient just satisfaction for any non-pecuniary damage sustained by the applicant under this provision ; Holds , by 11 votes to 6, that the respondent State is to pay the applicant, within three months, EUR 2,800 (two thousand eight hundred euros), to be converted into the currency of the respondent State at the rate applicable at the date of settlement, plus any tax that may be chargeable to him, in respect of the non-pecuniary damage which he has suffered as a result of the violation of Article 3 ; that from the expiry of the above-mentioned three months until settlement simple interest shall be payable on the above amount at a rate equal to the marginal lending rate of the European Central Bank during the default period plus three percentage points; Holds , by 15 votes to 2, (a) that the respondent State is to pay the applicant, within three months, EUR 9,050 (nine thousand and fifty euros) to be converted into the currency of the respondent State at the rate applicable at the date of settlement, plus any tax that may be chargeable to the applicant, in respect of costs and expenses; (b) that from the expiry of the above-mentioned three months until settlement simple interest shall be payable on the above amount at a rate equal to the marginal lending rate of the European Central Bank during the default period plus three percentage points; Dismisses , unanimously, the remainder of the applicant’s claim for just satisfaction. Done in English and in French, and delivered at a public hearing in the Human Rights Building, Strasbourg, on 5 May 2026, pursuant to Rule 77 §§ 2 and 3 of the Rules of Court. Abel Campos Mattias Guyomar Deputy Registrar President In accordance with Article 45 § 2 of the Convention and Rule 74 § 2 of the Rules of Court, the following separate opinions are annexed to this judgment: (a) Joint partly dissenting opinion of Judges Vehabović, Schukking, Chanturia, Yüksel, Seibert-Fohr, Roosma, Guerra Martins and Ní Raifeartaigh; (b) Partly dissenting opinion of Judge Guerra Martins; (c) Partly dissenting opinion of Judge Lavapuro, joined by Judges Jelić, Ktistakis, Šimáčková and Đurović; (d) Joint dissenting opinion of Judges Vehabović, Chanturia, Felici, Yüksel, Ní Raifeartaigh and Kučs; (e) Dissenting opinion of Judge Ní Raifearta [...]